{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red18\green144\blue207;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red154\green180\blue113;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c63529\c84706;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c66667\c74902\c51765;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs50 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Speech-Language Therapy\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa400\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \strokec4 Speech-Language Therapy is the evaluation and remediation for children with difficulties in articulation, fluency, resonance, receptive language and expressive language due to oral motor weakness, motor planning problems, birth defects, hearing impairments, or other developmental and communicative disorders. The speech pathologist at Bergen Pediatric Therapy Center is PROMPT trained and is able to work with children diagnosed with apraxia. Also help with social skills necessary for children to interact at home, in school and within the community.\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Stimulate Communication\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Oral Motor Development\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Motor Planning Skills\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Cognitive Development\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Social Skills\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs40 \cf5 \cb3 \strokec5 Language Mission Statement\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa400\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \strokec4 Learning how to speak properly is ideal in the young stages of life. It\'92s also the easiest period of time to fix any speech impediments or issues, before it\'92s ingrained in the child\'92s habits. By guiding children through this process, speech- including pronunciation, fluid sentencing, and proper manners- can be learned and formed into habits. Children can take these lessons home to practice throughout the days and weeks they don\'92t have classes. It\'92s an all-around, fully involved program that is determined to assure your child improves his speech every day.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs50 \cf2 \strokec2 Social Group Therapy\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa400\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \strokec4 The social groups are designed to help children of various ages and disabilities to interact with their peers. Depending on the level and age of the children in the group the goals may vary but we would like the children to develop the ability to maintain conversation, listen, take turns, and make requests, and state desires and feelings. Social Group Therapy is overseen by a special educator and speech / language pathologist, who helps to facilitate these goals in a setting of two, three or four children.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa180\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf5 \cb3 \strokec5 SOCIAL GROUP THERAPY GOALS\cb1 \
	
\fs28 \cf0 \cb3 \strokec4 Initiating and Maintaining Conversations\cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Nonverbal and Verbal Communication Skills\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Emotions and Self-control\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Perspective Taking and Flexibility\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Problem Solving and Negotiating Awareness of Social Cues\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Group Dynamics and more\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs40 \cf5 \cb3 \strokec5 Gaining Group Confidence\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa400\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \strokec4 Our group settings provide the appropriate social setting for children to gain the confidence to speak in conversation, amongst a group, and generally publicly. It\'92s not enough to rid of a social impairment if it returns in social settings. By practicing in groups, children learn how to communicate clearly and effectively.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs40 \cf5 \strokec5 Learning to Socialize\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa400\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \strokec4 Amongst these group therapy sessions, children also learn how to present themselves in social settings. They learn how kids their age can be their friends and how to talk to them. By learning to socialize, they build many of their own characteristics, such as confidence. Socializing is also a key to participating in society and ultimately leading a well-rounded, elated life. These group sessions also teach children how to make relationships among their peers to the best of their ability. By guiding the children through these sessions, they learn group manners and how to best speak with one another, regardless of their hindering conditions.\
}