{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red18\green144\blue207;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red44\green120\blue230;\red154\green180\blue113;\red125\green191\blue49;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c63529\c84706;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c21176\c55686\c92157;\cssrgb\c66667\c74902\c51765;\cssrgb\c55294\c78039\c24706;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs50 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Listening Therapy\

\f1\b0\fs28 \cf0 \strokec4 Listening Therapy was created based on a number of concepts on how humans develop, process information, communicate, and learn.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 It is most beneficial for those who have development disorders (Autism Spectrum Disorder-ASD, Asperger\'92s syndrome, Rett syndrome), learning disorders (dyslexia, dysgrphia, dyscalculia), attention disorders such as ADHD, emotional disorders, and communication disorders.\
The three programs we have available for Listening Therapy are\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://bergenpediatrictherapy.com/listening-therapy/tomatis-method.php"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 Tomatis}},{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://bergenpediatrictherapy.com/listening-therapy/intergrated-listening-therapy.php"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 \'a0Integrated Listening System (iLS)}}, and\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://bergenpediatrictherapy.com/listening-therapy/what-listening-therapy-is.php"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 Solisten.}}\'a0Each listening program is tailored to every individual child\'92s needs.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs40 \cf6 \strokec6 In children, the application of listening therapy has shown to:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs28 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Improve focus and the ability to stay on task\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Improve learning ability\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Access and improve speech ability\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Improve understanding of directions\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Reduce hours spent on homework\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Improve peer relationships\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Increase self-confidence and self-esteem\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs40 \cf6 \cb3 \strokec6 Listening vs. Hearing\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa400\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \strokec4 Hearing is the passive reception of sound while listening is the active participation in what one hears. It\'92s possible to have good hearing \'96 but poor listening. The ear plays a unique and critical role in our day-to-day lives. Beyond auditory function (the perception of sounds), the ear assumes two more functions:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf7 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec7 The dynamization function:\cb1 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b0 \cf0 \cb3 \strokec4 The human ear can be compared to a dynamo which provides the brain with energy and thus requires stimulation. The quality of the sounds produce effects on the level of energy of the brain. Tomatis found that higher frequency sounds are better for brain stimulation.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0
\f0\b \cf7 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec7 The vestibular function:\cb1 \uc0\u8232 
\f1\b0 \cf0 \cb3 \strokec4 The ear plays an important role in posture and balance control and influences a large part of the muscular system of the body. Not a single muscle of the body can move without the interplay of the vestibular system and its connection to the brain.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa400\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf7 \cb3 \strokec7 Hearing is a function of the ear while listening is a function of the brain.
\f1\b0 \cf0 \strokec4 \

\f0\b \cf7 \strokec7 Listening problems are the root cause of many learning and communication difficulties.\'a0
\f1\b0 \cf0 \strokec4 When this dysfunction occurs, the brain will order the ear to function less efficiently in return. This opens the way to everyday listening problems: mistaken interpretations during verbal exchanges such as the, impression that certain sounds are aggressive, lack of comprehension, difficulty concentrating, and learning difficulties and so on.\
}