{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red18\green144\blue207;\red154\green180\blue113;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red44\green120\blue230;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c63529\c84706;\cssrgb\c66667\c74902\c51765;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c21176\c55686\c92157;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs50 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Swim Lessons\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa180\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs36 \cf3 \strokec3 PRIVATE AND PERSONAL\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa400\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \strokec4 Specializing in Special Needs children and various disabilities is at the core of our swim program, but we also will be able to help your child swim whether they have disabilities or not.\'a0 Our adaptive approach to teaching swimming enables us to connect with your child on their level so they can thrive and gain water safety skills. The swim lesson will help them reach their full potential while having fun. Our swim lessons are led by an occupational and physical therapist.\
In a swim lesson, you can expect children to be introduced to basic water safety, gradually learn to float, practice breath control, develop fundamental swimming movements, and progress through different strokes depending on your skill level, all while being guided by an instructor who will tailor the lesson to your comfort level and goals in a welcoming and supportive environment.\
Our instructors are more than just good swimmers; they\'92re passionate professionals dedicated to helping each child learn.\
Our caring, trained instructors use proven swim instruction methods focused on water safety\uc0\u8204 . Bergen Pediatric is dedicated to helping each child feel safe and confident in the water as they learn skills and gain confidence that will bring them a lifetime of fun and memories.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs40 \cf3 \strokec3 Our Head Swim instructor is a Certified Occupational Therapy Assistant (COTA)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa400\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \strokec4 Our head swim instructor, Kristen, is a Certified Occupational Therapy Assistant (COTA) who also loves being in the water, whether she swimming, or helping someone become a better and more confident swimmer. She is certified as a Water Safety Instructor (WSI)\
She has over 10 years of experience as both a swimming instructor and a swimmer. She has a passion for teaching swimming lessons to children both with and without disabilities.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Our\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://bergenpediatrictherapy.com/aquatic-therapy/pool-at-bergen-pediatric-therapy/"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 warm, salt water pool}}\'a0is ideal for relaxing children and allowing them to learn in a comfortable environment.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://bergenpediatrictherapy.com/aquatic-therapy/pool-at-bergen-pediatric-therapy/"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 Learn more about our pool.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa180\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf3 \strokec3 CALL US\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "tel:(201)665-0123"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \strokec5 (201)-665-0123}}\'a0OR CONTACT US TO LEARN MORE ABOUT SWIM LESSONS.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs50 \cf2 \cb6 \strokec2 Heated Salt Water Therapy Pool\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \

\f1\b0\fs36 \cf3 \cb6 \strokec3 PRIVATE AND PERSONAL\cf3 \cb1 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa400\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \cb6 \strokec4 Every child that participates in our pool therapy sessions receives care from at least one professional, if not two. This creates a safe atmosphere that is hands-on and productive. The water itself is 3 1/2 \'96 4 feet deep, which is an optimal depth for steering around the pool and thus increasing mobilization for your child. This way, your child can get a fully helpful experience in the water.\cb1 \strokec4 \
\cb6 \strokec4 \'a0\cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs40 \cf3 \cb6 \strokec3 Heated Saltwater Effects\cf3 \cb1 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa400\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \cb6 \strokec4 The Aqua Therapy Pool is an amazing place for therapy. Its weightlessness allows children to perform physical tasks that they couldn\'92t, or would have a tough time with, on land. The heated water (93 degrees fahrenheit) especially contributes to the process as well. It\'92s warm enough to relax the muscles and allow for serious balance and motor skills practice. The art of swimming and moving in water allows for full body cohesion and awareness, allowing your child to become aware of all of his body\'92s capabilities. By doing this, your child will gain physical abilities out of the water to help in everyday life.\cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0

\fs40 \cf3 \cb6 \strokec3 Aquatic Facilities\cf3 \cb1 \strokec3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \cb6 \strokec4 A Hoyer lift is available for those unable to take the stairs.\'a0 Parents/caregivers may observe from within or through the large observation window.\'a0Typical pool equipment as well as games and age appropriate toys are available to enhance outcomes and overall engagement depending on specific client needs.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa400\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb6 Two private changing rooms enter into the pool room. Both\'a0changing rooms are handicapped accessible equipped with grab bars, shower chair, and height adjustable showerhead.\'a0 Changing tables are located in each room as well.\'a0 The open floor plan allows ample space for strollers or wheelchairs.\'a0 Towels are provided.\cb1 \strokec4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
}
